   TRUE: Alas, sir, I am but a messenger: I but tell you, what you
   must hear. It seems your friends are careful after your soul's
   health, sir, and would have you know the danger: (but you may do
   your pleasure for all them, I persuade not, sir.) If, after you are
   married, your wife do run away with a vaulter, or the Frenchman
   that walks upon ropes, or him that dances the jig, or a fencer
   for his skill at his weapon; why it is not their fault, they have
   discharged their consciences; when you know what may happen. Nay,
   suffer valiantly, sir, for I must tell you all the perils that
   you are obnoxious to. If she be fair, young and vegetous, no sweet-
   meats ever drew more flies; all the yellow doublets and great
   roses in the town will be there. If foul and crooked, she'll be
   with them, and buy those doublets and roses, sir. If rich, and
   that you marry her dowry, not her, she'll reign in your house
   as imperious as a widow. If noble, all her kindred will be your
   tyrants. If fruitful, as proud as May, and humorous as April; she
   must have her doctors, her midwives, her nurses, her longings every
   hour; though it be for the dearest morsel of man. If learned,
   there was never such a parrot; all your patrimony will be too
   little for the guests that must be invited to hear her speak
   Latin and Greek; and you must lie with her in those languages
   too, if you will please her. If precise, you must feast all the
   silenced brethren, once in three days; salute the sisters;
   entertain the whole family, or wood of them; and hear long-winded
   exercises, singings and catechisings, which you are not given to,
   and yet must give for: to please the zealous matron your wife, who
   for the holy cause, will cozen you, over and above. You begin to
   sweat, sir! but this is not half, i'faith: you may do your
   pleasure, notwithstanding, as I said before: I come not to persuade
   you.
   [MUTE IS STEALING AWAY.]
   --Upon my faith, master servingman, if you do stir, I will beat
   you.