   MOR: Admirable creature! I will trouble you no more: I will not
   sin against so sweet a simplicity. Let me now be bold to print on
   those divine lips the seal of being mine.--Cutbeard, I give thee
   the lease of thy house free: thank me not but with thy leg
   [CUTBEARD SHAKES HIS HEAD.]
   --I know what thou wouldst say, she's poor, and her friends
   deceased. She has brought a wealthy dowry in her silence, Cutbeard;
   and in respect of her poverty, Cutbeard, I shall have her more
   loving and obedient, Cutbeard. Go thy ways, and get me a minister
   presently, with a soft low voice, to marry us; and pray him he will
   not be impertinent, but brief as he can; away: softly,
   [EXIT CUTBEARD.]
   --Sirrah, conduct your mistress into the dining-room, your now
   mistress.
   [EXIT MUTE, FOLLOWED BY EPI.]
   --O my felicity! how I shall be revenged on mine insolent kinsman,
   and his plots to fright me from marrying! This night I will get an
   heir, and thrust him out of my blood, like a stranger; he would be
   knighted, forsooth, and thought by that means to reign over me;
   his title must do it: No, kinsman, I will now make you bring me
   the tenth lord's and the sixteenth lady's letter, kinsman; and it
   shall do you no good, kinsman. Your knighthood itself shall come
   on its knees, and it shall be rejected; it shall be sued for its
   fees to execution, and not be redeem'd; it shall cheat at the
   twelvepenny ordinary, it knighthood, for its diet, all the term-
   time, and tell tales for it in the vacation to the hostess; or it
   knighthood shall do worse, take sanctuary in Cole-harbour, and fast.
   It shall fright all its friends with borrowing letters; and when
   one of the fourscore hath brought it knighthood ten shillings, it
   knighthood shall go to the Cranes, or the Bear at the Bridge-foot,
   and be drunk in fear: it shall not have money to discharge one
   tavern-reckoning, to invite the old creditors to forbear it
   knighthood, or the new, that should be, to trust it knighthood. It
   shall be the tenth name in the bond to take up the commodity of
   pipkins and stone jugs: and the part thereof shall not furnish it
   knighthood forth for the attempting of a baker's widow, a brown
   baker's widow. It shall give it knighthood's name, for a stallion,
   to all gamesome citizens' wives, and be refused; when the master
   of a dancing school, or how do you call him, the worst reveller in
   the town is taken: it shall want clothes, and by reason of that,
   wit, to fool to lawyers. It shall not have hope to repair itself
   by Constantinople, Ireland, or Virginia; but the best and last fortune
   to it knighthood shall be to make Dol Tear-Sheet, or Kate Common a
   lady: and so it knighthood may eat.