   MOR: Welcome Cutbeard! draw near with your fair charge: and in her
   ear softly entreat her to unmasthey.
   [EPI. TAKES OFF HER MASK.]
   --So! Is the door shut?
   [MUTE MAKES A LEG.]
   --Enough. Now, Cutbeard, with the same discipline I use to my
   family, I will question you. As I conceive, Cutbeard, this
   gentlewoman is she you have provided, and brought, in hope she
   will fit me in the place and person of a wife? Answer me not, but
   with your leg, unless it be otherwise:
   [CUT. MAKES A LEG.]
   --Very well done, Cutbeard. I conceive, besides, Cutbeard, you
   have been pre-acquainted with her birth, education, and qualities,
   or else you would not prefer her to my acceptance, in the weighty
   consequence of marriage.
   [CUT. MAKES A LEG.]
   --This I conceive, Cutbeard. Answer me not but with your leg, unless
   it be otherwise.
   [CUT. BOWS AGAIN.]
   --Very well done, Cutbeard. Give aside now a little, and leave me to
   examine her condition, and aptitude to my affection.
   [HE GOES ABOUT HER, AND VIEWS HER.]
   --She is exceeding fair, and of a special good favour; a sweet
   composition or harmony of limbs: her temper of beauty has the
   true height of my blood. The knave hath exceedingly well fitted me
   without: I will now try her within. Come near, fair gentlewoman:
   let not my behaviour seem rude, though unto you, being rare, it
   may haply appear strange.
   [EPICOENE CURTSIES.]
   --Nay, lady, you may speak, though Cutbeard and my man, might not;
   for, of all sounds, only the sweet voice of a fair lady has the
   just length of mine ears. I beseech you, say, lady; out of the
   first fire of meeting eyes, they say, love is stricken: do you
   feel any such motion suddenly shot into you, from any part you see
   in me? ha, lady?
   [EPICOENE CURTSIES.]
   --Alas, lady, these answers by silent curtsies from you are too
   courtless and simple. I have ever had my breeding in court: and
   she that shall be my wife, must be accomplished with courtly and
   audacious ornaments. Can you speak, lady?