OVER. Well, in justice name, and the king's, and for the commonwealth!
defy all the world, Adam Overdo, for a disguise, and all story; for
thou hast fitted thyself, I swear. Fain would I meet the Linceus now,
that eagle's eye, that piercing Epidaurian serpent (as my Quintus
Horace calls him) that could discover a justice of peace (and lately
of the Quorum) under this covering. They may have seen many a fool in
the habit of a justice; but never till now, a justice in the habit of
a fool. Thus must we do though, that wake for the public good; and
thus hath the wise magistrate done in all ages. There is a doing of
right out of wrong, if the way be found. Never shall I enough commend
a worthy worshipful man, sometime a capital member of this city, for
his high wisdom in this point, who would take you now the habit of a
porter, now of a carman, now of the dog-killer, in this month of
August; and in the winter, of a seller of tinder-boxes. And what would
he do in all these shapes? marry, go you into every alehouse, and down
into every cellar; measure the length of puddings; take the gage of
black pots and cans, ay, and custards, with a stick; and their
circumference with a thread; weigh the loaves of bread on his middle
finger; then would he send for them home; give the puddings to the
poor, the bread to the hungry, the custards to his children; break the
pots, and burn the cans himself: he would not trust his corrupt
officers, he would do it himself. Would all men in authority would
follow this worthy precedent! for alas, as we are public persons, what
do we know? nay, what can we know? we hear with other men's ears, we
see with other men's eyes. A foolish constable or a sleepy watchman,
is all our information; he slanders a gentleman by the virtue of his
place, as he calls it, and we, by the vice of ours, must believe him.
As, a while agone, they made me, yea me, to mistake an honest zealous
pursuivant for a seminary; and a proper young bachelor of musick, for
a bawd. This we are subject to that live in high place; all our
intelligence is idle, and most of our intelligencers knaves; and, by
your leave, ourselves thought little better, if not arrant fools, for
believing them. I, Adam Overdo, am resolved therefore to spare
spy-money hereafter, and make mine own discoveries. Many are the
yearly enormities of this Fair, in whose courts of Pie-poudres I have
had the honour, during the three days, sometimes to sit as judge. But
this is the special day for detection of those foresaid enormities.
Here is my black book for the purpose; this the cloud that hides me;
under this covert I shall see and not be seen. On, Junius Brutus. And
as I began, so I'll end; in justice name, and the king's, and for the
commonwealth!