   MOR: Cannot I, yet, find out a more compendious method, than by
   this trunk, to save my servants the labour of speech, and mine
   ears the discord of sounds? Let me see: all discourses but my
   own afflict me, they seem harsh, impertinent, and irksome. Is
   it not possible, that thou should'st answer me by signs, and I
   apprehend thee, fellow? Speak not, though I question you. You have
   taken the ring off from the street door, as I bade you? answer me
   not by speech, but by silence; unless it be otherwise
   [MUTE MAKES A LEG.]
   --very good. And you have fastened on a thick quilt, or flock-bed,
   on the outside of the door; that if they knock with their
   daggers, or with brick-bats, they can make no noise?--But with
   your leg, your answer, unless it be otherwise,
   [MUTE MAKES A LEG.]
   --Very good. This is not only fit modesty in a servant, but good
   state and discretion in a master. And you have been with Cutbeard
   the barber, to have him come to me?
   [MUTE MAKES A LEG.]
   --Good. And, he will come presently? Answer me not but with your
   leg, unless it be otherwise: if it be otherwise, shake your
   head, or shrug.
   [MUTE MAKES A LEG.]
   --So! Your Italian and Spaniard are wise in these: and it is a
   frugal and comely gravity. How long will it be ere Cutbeard come?
   Stay, if an hour, hold up your whole hand, if half an hour, two
   fingers; if a quarter, one;
   [MUTE HOLDS UP A FINGER BENT.]
   --Good: half a quarter? 'tis well. And have you given him a key,
   to come in without knocking?
   [MUTE MAKES A LEG.]
   --good. And is the lock oil'd, and the hinges, to-day?
   [MUTE MAKES A LEG.]
   --good. And the quilting of the stairs no where worn out, and
   bare?
   [MUTE MAKES A LEG.]
   --Very good. I see, by much doctrine, and impulsion, it may be
   effected: stand by. The Turk, in this divine discipline, is
   admirable, exceeding all the potentates of the earth; still waited
   on by mutes; and all his commands so executed; yea, even in the
   war, as I have heard, and in his marches, most of his charges
   and directions given by signs, and with silence: an exquisite
   art! and I am heartily ashamed, and angry oftentimes, that the
   princes of Christendom should suffer a barbarian to transcend
   them in so high a point of felicity. I will practise it hereafter.
   [A HORN WINDED WITHIN.]
   --How now? oh! oh! what villain, what prodigy of mankind is that?
   look.
   [EXIT MUTE.]
   --[HORN AGAIN.]
   --Oh! cut his throat, cut his throat! what murderer, hell-hound,
   devil can this be?