OVER. I will make no more orations, shall draw on these tragical
conclusions. And I begin now to think, that by a spice of collateral
justice, Adam Overdo deserved this beating; for I, the said Adam, was
one cause (a by-cause) why the purse was lost; and my wife's brother's
purse too, which they know not of yet. But I shall make very good
mirth with it at supper, that will be the sport, and put my little
friend, master Humphrey Waspe's choler quite out of countenance: when,
sitting at the upper end of my table, as I use, and drinking to my
brother Cokes, and mistress Alice Overdo, as I will, my wife, for
their good affection to old Bradley, I deliver to them, it was I that
was cudgeled, and shew them the marks. To see what bad events may peep
out o' the tail of good purposes! the care I had of that civil young
man I took fancy to this morning, (and have not left it yet,) drew me
to that exhortation, which drew the company indeed; which drew the
cut-purse; which drew the money; which drew my brother Cokes his loss;
which drew on Waspe's anger; which drew on my beating: a pretty
gradation! and they shall have it in their dish, i'faith, at night for
fruit; I love to be merry at my table. I had thought once, at one
special blow he gave me, to have revealed myself; but then (I thank
thee, fortitude) I remembered that a wise man, and who is ever so
great a part of the commonwealth in himself, for no particular
disaster ought to abandon a public good design. The husbandman ought
not, for one unthankful year, to forsake the plough; the shepherd
ought not, for one scabbed sheep, to throw by his tar-box; the pilot
ought not, for one leak in the poop, to quit the helm; nor the
alderman ought not, for one custard more at a meal, to give up his
cloke; the constable ought not to break his staff, and forswear the
watch, for one roaring night; nor the piper of the parish, _ut parvis
componere magna solebam_, to put up his pipes for one rainy Sunday.
These are certain knocking conclusions; out of which, I am resolved,
come what come can, come beating, come imprisonment, come infamy, come
banishment, nay, come the rack, come the hurdle, (welcome all,) I will
not discover who I am, till my due time; and yet still, all shall be,
as I said ever, in justice name, and the king's, and for the
commonwealth.