_Abbot._ Have you no doubt, my lord; have you no fear:
   As silent and as careful we will be
   To keep your royal person safe with us,
   Free from suspect, and fell invasion
   Of such as have your majesty in chase,
   Yourself, and those your chosen company,
   As danger of this stormy time requires.
_K. Edw._ Father, thy face should harbour no deceit.
   O, hadst thou ever been a king, thy heart,
   Pierc'd deeply with sense of my distress,
   Could not but take compassion of my state!
   Stately and proud in riches and in train,
   Whilom I was, powerful and full of pomp:
   But what is he whom rule and empery
   Have not in life or death made miserable?--
   Come, Spenser,--come, Baldock,--come, sit down by me;
   Make trial now of that philosophy
   That in our famous nurseries of arts
   Thou suck'dst from Plato and from Aristotle.--
   Father, this life contemplative is heaven:
   O, that I might this life in quiet lead!
   But we, alas, are chas'd!--and you, my friends,
   Your lives and my dishonour they pursue.--
   Yet, gentle monks, for treasure, gold, nor fee,
   Do you betray us and our company.
_First Monk._ Your grace may sit secure, if none but we
   Do wot of your abode.
_Y. Spen._ Not one alive: but shrewdly I suspect
   A gloomy fellow in a mead below;
   'A gave a long look after us, my lord;
   And all the land, I know, is up in arms,
   Arms that pursue our lives with deadly hate.
_Bald._ We were embark'd for Ireland; wretched we,
   With awkward winds and with sore tempests driven,
   To fall on shore, and here to pine in fear
   Of Mortimer and his confederates!
_K. Edw._ Mortimer! who talks of Mortimer?
   Who wounds me with the name of Mortimer,
   That bloody man?--Good father, on thy lap
   Lay I this head, laden with mickle care.
   O, might I never ope these eyes again,
   Never again lift up this drooping head,
   O, never more lift up this dying heart!
_Y. Spen._ Look up, my lord.--Baldock, this drowsiness
   Betides no good; here even we are betray'd.